May 1, 2016
Xinxin Zhang

The effects of 3D printing on manufacturing 

3D printing, also known as additive manufacturing (AM), refers to various processes used to synthesize a three-dimensional object. It becomes “a revolutionary emerging technology that could up-end the last two centuries of approaches to design and manufacturing with profound geopolitical, economics, social, demographic, environmental, and security implications” (Campbell et al. 1). 
 
By applying this new technology, industries reduce the time of producing small batches drastically. However, manufacturing suffers some consequences at the same time. For instance, the localization propertity of 3D printing let people easily produce the products on demands with low costs at home rather than buying them from markets. Consequently, the country like China which highly depends on commercial export will lose a crucial tunnel of making money due to the reduce of demands. So, concerning the positive and negative effects that this new technology brings to manufacturing, helps people understand and judge the feasibility of extensively applying 3D printing on manufacturing. 

Positive Effects:
•	Mode of Production 
The traditional manufacturing forms, such as assembly line, assemble and install spare parts separately. This is a “subtractive” process, which carves the raw materials to the desired shape (Ehrenberg 22). By contrast, 3D printing transforms digital information directly to create objects layer-by-layer (adding materials from bottom to top). This assists industries to reduce time of producing products and demand of labors, which means less labors can fininsh the work in less time. So that the efficiency of producing increases and cost of manpower decreases. 

•	Resources & Environment
Traditional manufacturing relies on tooling, machinery, computers, robots and manpower to produce objects subtractively and separately. In contrast, AM creates physical parts form bottom to top directly from a standardized digital file (Campbell et al. 5), which designs the product mroe streamlined, utilizes the materials sufficiently, reduces material scrap and releasingly harmful chemicals, and cuts down the amount of energy usage. Additionally, most of the materials that are used to produce objects by 3D printing are recyclable. 
 
•	Science & Inventions
Since 3D printing is “producing a finished product, part or tool straight from a computer design” (Reis 16), it is able to create complex shapes that can not be produced by any other means.  Such a huge advantage offers scientists and engineers even greater design flexibility. In fact, a researcher at a Delaware hospital created a durable ABS-plastic exoskeleton customized to perfectly fit one child, Emma, allowing her to play, explore and hug for the first time (Reis 2). 3D printing is not pnly changing the way doctors design prosthetics but also prodding engineers, architects and designers to think differently about the construction and function of car parts, airplanes and even whole buildings (Ehrenberg 22).

Negative Effects:
•	Economy 
Because of high efficiency and less manpower demands of 3D printing, it has potential to become the mainstream of manufacturing in the future. Consequently, the unemployment rate grows because workers, such as those working on assembling lines, will lose their jobs; the crime rate may increase because some of the unemployed people may use illegal methods to make money for living. Morever, for the countries like China, Japan and Thailand whose profits from commercial export will cut down due to the soaring rates of localization of this technology.

•	Weapons and drug Manufacturing
As 3D printing becomes more and more matured, customized and low-costed, weapons manufacturers and terrorists have more opportunities to produce large amount of weapons. What’s worse, they can even design and create more lethal weapons and disguise them easily by applying 3D printing (Campbell et al. 13). Besides, such innovations could make life easier for illicit drug manufacturers as well (Ehrenberg 2). They can produce large amount of illicit drug with lost cost in a short time, which gives them far more profits. 


The development of 3D printing has consequences that go beyond shifts in manufacturing and supply chains (Ehrenberg 24). The automatic process of 3D printing increases efficiency of producing and reduces waste materials. Additionally, with its strong ability of building the complex shapes, scientists and engineers have much more opportunities of creating. However, there is no denying that AM brings some negative effects. The expansion of 3D printing will break the equilibrium of economy and provide large amount of chances for illegal weapons and counterfeit drug manufacturess(Ehrenberg 24). Therefor, applying 3D printing spreadly is a trade-off issue for manufacturin. But, with the improvement of this technology and proper application, 3D printing will finally become a transformative technology and dominant the future manufacturing. 

























Work Cited:
1. Campbell, T., Williams, C., Ivanova, O., & Garrett, B. (2011). Could 3D Printing Change the World?. Technologies, Potential, and Implications of Additive Manufacturing. Washington, DC: Atlantic Council.

2. Berman, B. (2012). 3D printing: The new industrial revolution. Business Horizons, 55(2), 155-162.

3. Ehrenberg, R. (2013). The 3D printing revolution: Dreams made real, one layer at a time. science news, 183(5), 20-25.

4. Reis, D. (2013). The Future of 3D Technology. Mechanical Engineering, 135(2), 16-17.




 

 






 
